hi michael here today i'll show you an
adventure drama family film
called a monster calls spoiler alert
you'll understand the important plot
points
connor a 12 year old boy is clinging to
his mother on the edge of a cliff as she
is ready to plunge into the abyss
he lets go of his grip connor wakes up
from what seems to be a recurring
nightmare
the next morning he goes into his
mother's room to find her sleeping
he prepares his own breakfast at school
while conor is in class a boy looks him
down
after that he assaults him in the
schoolyard in front of the bully's
friends
later his mother joins him she has short
hair
evidence of a battle with cancer she
says they're going to try a new round of
chemotherapy
and that conor's grandmother is coming
to take care of him so he won't have to
make breakfast every morning
he's disappointed and wonders how long
she'll be there his mother promises that
it will just be for a few days
that night when his clock ticks over
from 1206 to 1207
conor hears a voice booming from outside
calling out his name
outside his house a large tree changes
shape till it transforms into a giant
tree monster
conor calls out to the monster to leave
but the creature carries him out of his
room and into their garden
the monster tells connor that he doesn't
come out walking very often
but when he does he expects to be hurt
conor is defiant towards him
the monster says he'll come back and
tell him three stories and when he's
finished
conor will tell him a fourth story which
will be the truth his truth
and the truth will be what he hides and
fears the most that he dreams of
conor had called him because of this
truth he then finds himself back in his
room
connor's grandmother arrives the next
morning she has wigs for connor's mother
and instructs him to put a kettle on
she finds connor in the kitchen and
treats him with contempt
he tells her to leave because his mother
is always sick after treatments and will
recover in a day
his grandmother tells him that even if
she appears to be improving
she won't be better the next day and
that they need to discuss about connor
moving in with her
that night connor's grandma sleeps in
connor's bedroom while he sleeps in the
living room
the clock clicks from 1206 to 1207 but
no monster appears
after that he notices him outside the
window the monster tells conor his first
tale
in a happy kingdom lived a king who lost
all of his sons to battles with giants
or dragons
his only remaining heir was a grandson
who grew up to be a beloved prince
throughout the kingdom
there were rumors that his new wife
replacing his first after she died of a
broken heart
had poisoned him but the king pleaded
with the people not to blame her
the woman now queen intended to retain
her position by marrying her stepson
the prince but instead he rides away
with the farmer's daughter
whom he had fallen in love with they
slept under the branches of a
tree the same tree that has become the
monster but when the prince awoke he
found out that the woman had been
murdered in the night
men then approached attempting to arrest
him he asked the u tree for help and the
monster came alive
frightening the villagers into rallying
behind the prince as he claims the queen
murdered his wife
a mob attacks the queen and the monster
says that she was never seen again
conor then asks if he can help do
something about his grandma
the monster interjects that the story
isn't over yet the queen wasn't killed
the monster had taken her to a new
village
far enough away from her people that
they wouldn't find her connor asks why
he would spare the life of a woman who
murdered the farmer's daughter
the monster says he never said the queen
simply that the prince claimed it he
then reveals the prince had murdered his
bride to frame the queen and turn the
kingdom against her
the prince then continued to be loved by
the kingdom connor upset
complaining that the moral of the story
is trite with the good prince being a
murderer and the queen not being a witch
the monster says the queen might have
been a witch and could have become evil
but he protected her because she was not
a murderer in the kingdom of old age
rather than poisoning
there is no good guy in the story most
people are in between good and bad
sometimes kingdoms get the princes they
deserve farmers daughters die for no
reason
and sometimes witches deserve to be
saved connor asks how this is going to
save him from his grandma and the
monster tells him it's not the grandma
he needs saving from
the next day when conor gets home his
grandma informs him that his mother had
to return to the hospital and that the
chemotherapy isn't working
connor's dad is coming in from america
connor sees his mom in her room
she speaks cautiously about her health
informing conor that the last treatment
didn't work as they expected it
but they're going to try something else
connor is now living with his
grandmother in her home
she tells him about her grandfather
clock which has been passed down through
her family for generations
and she bans him from touching it she
leaves him alone in the spotless and
tidy house
connor's father visits and the two go
out to eat connor is adamant that his
mother will be all right because she is
on a new medication that will help her
connor's father informs him that his
sister is doing well to which connor
responds that she is his half-sister
his father tells him that she can't wait
to see him and that he's working on
getting connor to come to los angeles
connor is excited about getting to leave
his grandma's house but his dad
clarifies that he met only for christmas
connor doesn't want to live in his
grandma's house which he describes as an
old lady's house where you can't touch
anything or sit anywhere
he wants his own space in his own room
connor's father points out that in
america
they barely have enough room for the
three of them and that conor school is
in europe but we know that conor is
bullied at school and he doesn't seem to
mind the idea of leaving
back at his grandma's house the two find
connor's grandmother has returned to the
hospital
connor's dad informs him he's only there
until friday because americans don't get
much holiday
connor tells him he's not american and
he asks him why he came
his dad tells him he came because his
mother asked him too
connor who is now upset settles into his
grandma's living room
he begins tearing up the house even
ripping up the clock which she had told
him was so important to her
the hands stop at 1207. the monster is
now in the living room
telling conor that he is going to tell
him the second tale
150 years ago the valley was filled with
factories
an apothecary lived in the village
digging up herbs and barks and berries
and leaves for his medicine
but when he tries to sell his goods to
people in the village they are rude to
him because they prefer modern medicine
the parson had two daughters whom he
loved very much the apothecary wanted
the utree
which is now the monster because of its
healing powers but he would have to cut
it down and the parson refuses
the monster notes that the parson was
not unkind but wanted to take the
village out of the days of superstition
and witchery
he preaches in church against the
apothecary and the village quickly turns
against him
but one day the parsons daughters become
very sick and no modern doctor can save
them
he goes up to the apothecary and begs
him to help his innocent daughters
the apothecary asks why should i you
drew away my business with your
preachings and you refuse to give me the
eu tree which can help with my healing
the parson says he can have the utree
and he will deliver sermons in his favor
if he saves his daughters the apothecary
asks
you would give up everything you believe
in the parson affirms this
stating that he'll give up everything to
save his daughters the apothecary says
then there is nothing i can do to help
you both of the daughters died the next
day
and that night the eu tree came along
and became monstrous
conor thinks he is going to punish the
apothecary but instead he destroys the
parsons home
the monster points out that the
apothecary was not the bad guy
when times were easy the parson nearly
destroyed the apothecary but when things
were tough
he was willing to throw aside every
belief to save his daughters
if the parson had given the utreat of
the apothecary when he first asked
he could have saved many lives including
the parsons daughters
even though the apothecary was greedy
and rude he was still a healer
the parson was a man of belief who was
willing to sacrifice it at the first
challenge
he believes selfishly and fearfully the
monster then proceeds to demolish the
parsons house and the story
destroying the fireplace throwing away
their beds crushing the furniture and
breaking the windows
connor lends a hand by crushing things
when he returns back to grandma's
sitting room
he discovers that it wasn't just a dream
the entire living room and everything in
it has been smashed to pieces
including her clock his grandma returns
home
she takes in the scene with horror in
her eyes connor is afraid he will be
punished but she is in such agony that
she can only scream
knocking over the last standing display
cabinet later that night
connor's grandma is heard crying in her
bedroom the next morning
he finds his father cooking eggs
informing connor that his grandma had
called him to tell him about the living
room
she has rushed to the hospital and he
will drive him to school connor
complains that he wants to go to the
hospital
his dad tells him he knows he's been
unhappy and upset hence the living room
connor asks if he's going to be punished
but his dad said there's no point
after that conor goes to the hospital he
overhears his mom
sick and upset but she covers it up when
he enters her hospital room
she tells connor that she had a bad
reaction that morning but they're going
to try a new medicine to see if they can
have some positive outcomes
and it's medicine that comes from the
you tree like the one in their backyard
she says all this time they could have
just chopped it down to cure her
but not the one in their actual yard
because it's almost like a friend
connor and his father go for a walk and
connor learns that his father is
returning to america
he says he'll be back in two weeks
connor is optimistic that the new
medication will heal his mother because
it comes from the utree
and he considers that prophetic given
his visits from the u tree monster but
his father points out it's a last-ditch
effort and that it won't help her
he explains to connor that stories don't
always end up the way we want them to
that night conor waits until the clock
clicks to 1207.
he enters the garden and calls out to
the monster who then appears
he asks the tree if he can help his
mother but the monster says it's not up
to him
but if she can be healed the you tree
will do it the monster says
you still don't know why you've called
me he points out he doesn't visit people
often and says it's not yet time for his
third tale but soon
and then conor will tell him his truth
then we see the nightmare he had at the
beginning
of him clinging to his mother's hands as
she is about to fall into an abyss
he writes it off as just a nightmare he
asks what is going to happen to his
mother and the monster responds
do you not know already days go by and
the monster no longer appears
connor continues visiting his mom in the
hospital when he's in school
his bully comes up to him and bullies
him while he is eating lunch
around 1206 pm the bully then spills
connor's orange juice on his art book
where he has drawn a picture of his
mother
he tells conor that he won't bully him
anymore because he thinks that being
invisible would be a much worse fate
as he walks away the bully remarks
sarcastically
that he's sorry about his mother at 1207
the monster appears in the cafeteria he
tells conor it's time for the third tale
once upon a time there was an invisible
man who was tired of being unseen
it wasn't that he was actually invisible
but that people had become used to not
seeing him
the invisible man called for a monster
to make them see
while this story is told conor charges
up the cafeteria and attacks the bully
pummeling him in an explosion of rage
conor has been sent to the principal's
office
she inquired as to what had happened to
him his tormentor now in the hospital
and his parents are threatening to sue
connor claims it was the monster who did
the hitting but we flash back to conor
pummeling his bully
screaming i'm not invisible over and
over as he regains control of himself
the monster warns him that all invisible
men learn that there are worse things
than not being seen
back to the present the principal says
school rules dictate immediate exclusion
but she can't do that to him
she tells him to go back to class and
they will talk about the incident later
she goes on to say that there is no
point in punishment just like his father
after he destroyed the living room
connor is transported to the hospital
that day his mom is even sicker than
before and informs him that the new
treatment isn't working
connor doesn't believe it since it's
from the utree she tells him things have
moved really fast
he asks what treatment is next but she
doesn't reply there are no more
treatments
his mother expresses regret and
apologizes
he tells her she's been lying to him the
whole time she responds that he must
have known deep down in his heart
and that it's fine for him to feel angry
and if he needs to break things
he should do so and if he ever feels bad
about being too angry to talk to her
he should know that she understands what
he has to say even if he can't say it
out loud
conor runs to the graveyard with eu tree
on top he screams for it to wake up
the monster appears connor screams that
the you tree didn't make her better like
the monster promised it would
the tree responds that he said if his
mom could be healed
the utree would do it but she could not
be connor screams for the monster to fix
her or else he has no purpose
since the stupid stories just got him
into trouble the monster says conor was
the one who called him and only he knows
why
connor claims that if he called the
monster it was to save and heal his
mother
the monster says he didn't come to heal
her but to heal conor
the monster says it's time for the
fourth tale the hillside transforms into
the cliff that connor has seen in his
recurring nightmare
his mother is standing on the edge
looking frail as ever
connor screams and pleads his mother to
run away from the cliff as black smoke
swirls around them
a monster made of a black cloud forms
and pulls his mother over the cliff
but connor catches her hands and he hold
on just like in his nightmare
conor struggles to hold on while the
cloud monster tries to pull her into the
abyss
the utree monster tells conor this is
the fourth tale the truth of conor
o'malley
and his mom falls into the cliff connor
finds himself back in the clearing he
informs the monster that this is where
he normally takes up
and he requests to see his mother the
monster tells him she is no longer there
because he let her go
he must tell the truth or he will never
leave the story they're currently in
the monster points out that conor let
his mother go he could have held on for
longer but he chose to let her go
the monster urges conor to ask why he
let her go
connor finally responds he did it
because he wants it to be over and he
can't stand it anymore
he wants it to be finished so he let her
go and let her die
connor asks why the cloud monster didn't
kill him he deserves punishment
he admits he always knew she wasn't
going to get better but he convinced
himself she would
and a part of him wanted it to be over
because it makes him feel so alone and
that he wished it would end
even if that meant losing her he cries
that he didn't mean to let her die
in the nightmare but now she's going to
die in real life and it's all his fault
the monster tells him that's not the
truth at all connor was merely wishing
to end his pain which is the most human
wish of all
connor says he didn't mean it but the
monster says he did and he did not
conor asks how that can be true the
monster asks
how can a prince be both a murderer and
a savior how can an apothecary be evil
tempered but right thinking
how can invisible men make themselves
more lonely by being seen
because humans are complicated beasts
you believe comforting lies while
knowing full well the painful truths
that make those lies necessary
he then tells conor that he almost died
when attacked by the cloud monster
rather than speak the truth and that's
what he needs to do now
exhausted conor goes to sleep on the
hilltop
when he wakes up his grandma is there
having searched for him
she hurries conor to the car to get to
the hospital while she frantically
drives through town
connor apologizes for the living room
and she tells him it doesn't matter
adding that they are not the most
natural fit but they'll have to learn
and that they have one thing in common
they both love his mother
the two burst into his mother's hospital
room and are told they got there in time
connor's mom is slowly dying and she is
assured that connor and her mother are
both there
the monster appears in the room and
tells conor here is the end of the tale
the clock is about to turn the monster
tells him all that's left is for him to
speak the simplest of truths
connor tells his dying mother he doesn't
want her to go the monster tells conor
that the story ends with the boy holding
on tight to his mother and in doing so
is finally able to let her go as she
begins to die
connor's mom looks up to where the tree
is and smiles as if she can see him too
connor returns to his grandmother's
house where they have established a more
peaceful living situation
he discovers a book of his mother's
artwork that is similar to his own
flipping over the pages he discovers a
drawing of the utree as a monster on the
last page
revealing that he had appeared to her as
a youngster as well
this is michael movie recap channel see
you in the next video
bye